Proposal
================
2023-11-08

# Project Title: Shooting Incidents in NYC

Group Members: Xiaoting Tang(xt2288), Junyi Ren(jr4392),Yixiao
Sun(ys3765), Sixuan Chen(sc5352), Yang Zhao(yz4717)

### Motivation:

The topic of shooting incidents worldwide raises concerns about the
safety and security of various communities. A specific case involving an
NYU student underscores the need for increased awareness and preventive
measures within educational institutions. Many schools are tasked with
ensuring the safety of their students, making it essential to address
and mitigate potential threats. Additionally, the safety and
satisfaction of tourists and fair labor conditions for employees are key
factors in maintaining the appeal of destinations like New York City.
People choosing NYC as their destination are often motivated by the
city’s diverse opportunities, which include education, employment, and
cultural experiences. Overall, the motivation to address these
interconnected issues lies in the shared goal of creating safer, more
vibrant communities and environments for individuals to thrive.

### The goal of our project:

-Understanding risk factors for shooting incidents in NYC

-Visualizing the distribution of shooting outcomes in New York City

-Predict the time series for the future shooting incidents in boroughs
of NYC

### The intended final products:

Using data and graphs to find out the potential factors and correlations
such as payroll, and unemployment rate that lead to the high shooting
accident rate in the boroughs of NYC and predicts the incidents rate in
the future years.

### The planned analyses/visualizations/coding challenges:

-various plots, such as boxplots, scatter plots, and pie charts with
analysis

-a visual map shows the incidents in different boroughs across NYC

-coding challenge: Using time series to conduct the prediction of
Incident Rate( decompose

### The anticipated data sources:

- ShootingIncidentData:<https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/NYPD-Shooting-Incident-Data-Historic-/833y-fsy8>

- PayrollDataNYC:
  <https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/Citywide-Payroll-Data-Fiscal-Year-/k397-673e>

- Unemployment Ratez:<https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/NYUR>

- Bureau of Labor: <https://www.bls.gov/>

### The planned timeline:

11.8 - group meeting

11.10 - construct proposal

11.13-17 - group meeting with TA and make changes to our proposal

11.17 - group meeting – discuss details of the project, clean the raw
data, and assign each part to the group member

11.20-12.1 - every group member finish their parts individually and
combine the whole materials together to make a roughly basic project

12.4-12.8 - group meeting – creating a polished HTML webpage involves
careful design, responsive layout, and attention to detail; using screen
recording software to create a screencast demonstrating the interaction
with our website

12.9 - Everything due by 11:59pm + Peer Assessment
